DDS QoS Policies and Entity [8431] (#124)
eProsima/Fast-RTPS-docs: docs/fastdds/dds_layer/core/policy/policy.rst

.. role:: raw-html(raw)
    :format: html

.. _dds_layer_core_policy:

Policy
======

The Quality of Service (QoS) is used to specify the behavior of the Service, allowing the user to  to define how each
entity will behave.
To increase the flexibility of the system, the QoS is decomposed in several QoS Policies that can be configured
independently.

> However, there may be cases where several policies conflict.

Author: I think this suggestion is more related to the set_qos functions, not with the definition of the qos policies.

> However, there may be cases where several policies conflict.

Reviewer: Probably my suggestion is too detailed. But as a reader, the last sentence warning about possible conflicts among policies still leaves me worried about what happens on that case.

We can either say something about it, or completely remove the sentence about conflicts, as they will be detailed somewhere else.

discarded.

.. _destinationorder_compatibilityrule:

Compatibility Rule
""""""""""""""""""

To maintain the compatibility between DestinationOrderQosPolicy in DataReaders and DataWriters when they have different
kind values, the DataWriter kind must be higher or equal to the DataReader kind.
And the order between the different kinds is::

 BY_RECEPTION_TIMESTAMP < BY_SOURCE_TIMESTAMP

Table with the possible combinations:

+------------------------+-------------------------+-----------------+
| DataWriter kind        | DataReader kind         | Compatibility   |
+========================+=========================+=================+
| By Reception Timestamp | By Reception Timestamp  | Yes             |
+------------------------+-------------------------+-----------------+
| By Reception Timestamp | By Source Timestamp     | No              |
+------------------------+-------------------------+-----------------+
| By Source Timestamp    | By Reception Timestamp  | Yes             |
+------------------------+-------------------------+-----------------+
| By Source Timestamp    | By Source Timestamp     | Yes             |

> +------------------------+-------------------------+-----------------+

Reviewer: write values in uppercase and underscores

|                          |                                                  | TRANSIENT LOCAL for DataWriters   |
+--------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to Topic, DataReader and DataWriter entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entities.

.. warning::
    For DataWriters and DataReaders to match, they must follow the compatibility rule. See :ref:`durability_compatibilityrule` for
    further details.

.. _durabilitykind:

DurabilityQosPolicyKind
"""""""""""""""""""""""

There are four possible values:

* **Volatile**: Past samples are ignored and a joining DataReader receives samples generated after the moment it
  matches.
* **Transient Local**: When a new DataReader joins, its History is filled with past samples.
* **Transient**: When a new DataReader joins, its History is filled with past samples, which are stored on persistent
  storage (see :ref:`persistence`).
* **Persistent** (`Not Implemented`): All the sample are stored on a permanent storage, so that they can outlive a
  system session.

> 

Reviewer: write values in uppercase and underscores

| DataWriter kind    | DataReader kind   | Compatibility   |
+====================+===================+=================+
| Volatile           | Volatile          | Yes             |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+
| Volatile           | Transient Local   | No              |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+
| Volatile           | Transient         | No              |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+
| Transient Local    | Volatile          | Yes             |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+
| Transient Local    | Transient Local   | Yes             |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+
| Transient Local    | Transient         | No              |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+
| Transient          | Volatile          | Yes             |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+
| Transient          | Transient Local   | Yes             |
+--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+
| Transient          | Transient         | Yes             |

> +--------------------+-------------------+-----------------+

Reviewer: write values in uppercase and underscores

| service_cleanup_delay    | fastrtps::Duration_t        | c_TimeZero            |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+
| history_kind             | :ref:`historyqospolicykind` | KEEP_LAST             |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+
| history_depth            | int32_t                     | 1                     |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+
| max_samples              | int32_t                     | -1 (Length Unlimited) |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+
| max_instances            | int32_t                     | -1 (Length Unlimited) |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+
| max_samples_per_instance | int32_t                     | -1 (Length Unlimited) |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+

* **Service cleanup delay**: It controls when the service can remove all the information regarding a data instance. That

>   information is kept until the following conditions are met:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  information is kept until all the following conditions are met:
```

  entities.
* **Max samples**: Controls the maximum number of samples of the :ref:`resourcelimitsqospolicy` associated with the
  Durability Service fictitious entities.
  This value must be higher than the maximum number of samples per instance.
* **Max instances**: Controls the maximum number of instances of the :ref:`resourcelimitsqospolicy` associated with the
  Durability Service fictitious entities.
* **Max samples per instance**: Controls the maximum number of samples within an instance of the
  :ref:`resourcelimitsqospolicy` associated with the Durability Service fictitious entities.
  This value must be lower than the maximum number of samples.

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to Topic and DataWriter entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entities.

.. _entityfactoryqospolicy:

EntityFactoryQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This QoS Policy controls the behavior of an :ref:`dds_layer_core_entity` when it acts as a factory for other entities.
As you know, the entities can be created either enabled or disabled, a fact that can be controlled using this QoS

> Policy.

Reviewer: Does not give any information that is not covered on the previous and following sentence. Remove it to simplify.

false, the new entities will be created disabled.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+-----------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name            | Type                          | Default Value     |
+=============================+===============================+===================+
| autoenable_created_entities | bool                          | true              |
+-----------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to DomainParticipantFactory (as factory for DomainParticipant), DomainParticipant (as factory for
     Publisher, Subscriber and Topic), Publisher (as factory for DataWriter) and Subscriber (as factory for DataReader).
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It can be changed after the creation of the entities, but it only affects those entities created after the change.

Example
"""""""

C++
***
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_ENTITY_FACTORY_QOS_POLICY
   :end-before: //!

XML
***

> This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML by the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML at the moment.
```

Author: The meaning of those sentences is not the same, and I think it is okay as it is.

Reviewer: "by the moment" means something like 'por momentos'
Maybe 'for the moment' gives more sense of something that is planned to change?

.. _groupqospolicy:

GroupDataQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Allow the application to attach additional information to created Publishers or Subscribers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allows the application to attach additional information to created Publishers or Subscribers.
```

This data is common to all DataWriters\\DataReaders belonging to the Publisher\\Subscriber and it is propagated by means
of the built-in topics.

This QoS Policy can be used in combination with DataWriter and DataReader listeners to implement a matching policy
similar to the :ref:`PartitionQosPolicy <partitionqospolicy>`.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                          | Default Value     |
+==========================+===============================+===================+
| collection               | std::vector<fastrtps::octet>  | Empty vector      |
+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to Publisher and Subscriber entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It can be changed after the creation of the entities.

Example
"""""""

C++
***
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_GROUP_DATA_QOS_POLICY
   :end-before: //!

XML
***

> This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML by the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML at the moment.
```

.. _historyqospolicy:

HistoryQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This QoS Policy controls the behavior of the system when the value of an instance changes one or more times before it
can be successfully communicated to the existing DataReader entities.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                          | Default Value     |
+==========================+===============================+===================+
| kind                     | :ref:`historyqospolicykind`   | KEEP_LAST         |
+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+
| depth                    | int32_t                       | 1                 |
+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+

* **kind**: Controls if the service should deliver only the most recent values, all the intermediate values or do
  something in between.
  See :ref:`historyqospolicykind` for further details.

> * **depth**: Establishes the maximum number of samples that must be kept on the history.
>   It only have effect if the kind is set to KEEP_LAST and it need to be consistent with the
>   :ref:`resourcelimitsqospolicy`, which means that its value must be lower or equal to max_samples_per_instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **depth**: Establishes the maximum number of samples that must be kept on the history.
  It only has effect if the kind is set to KEEP_LAST and it needs to be consistent with the
  :ref:`resourcelimitsqospolicy`, which means that its value must be lower or equal to max_samples_per_instance.
```

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to Topic, DataWriter and DataReader entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entities.

.. _historyqospolicykind:

HistoryQosPolicyKind
""""""""""""""""""""
There are two possible values:

* **Keep Last**: The service will only attempt to keep the most recent values of the instance and discard the older
  ones.

>   The maximum number of samples to keep and deliver is defined by the `depth` of the HistoryQosPolicy, which needs to
>   be consistent with the :ref:`resourcelimitsqospolicy` settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The maximum number of samples to keep and deliver is defined by the `depth` of the HistoryQosPolicy, which needs to
  be consistent with the :ref:`resourcelimitsqospolicy` settings.
  If the limit defined by `depth` is reached, the system will discard the oldest sample to make room to a new one.
```

* **Keep All**: The service will attempt to keep all the values of the instance until it can be delivered to all the
  existing Subscribers.
  If this option is selected, the depth will not have any effect, so the history is only limited by the values set in
  :ref:`resourcelimitsqospolicy`.
  If the limit is reached, the behavior of the system depends on the :ref:`reliabilityqospolicy`, if its kind is
  BEST_EFFORT the older values will be discarded, but if it is RELIABLE the service blocks the DataWriter until the old
  values are delivered to all existing Subscribers.

> 

Reviewer: write values in uppercase and underscores

Example
"""""""

C++
***
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_HISTORY_QOS_POLICY
   :end-before: //!

XML
***
.. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
    :language: xml
    :start-after: <!-->XML-HISTORY<-->
    :end-before: <!--><-->

.. _latencybudgetqospolicy:

LatencyBudgetQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning::
    This QoS Policy will be implemented in future releases.

> This QoS Policy urgency of the data communication, specifying the maximum acceptable delay from the time the data is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy specifies the maximum acceptable delay from the time the data is
```

> written until the data is inserted on the cache of the receiver application and notified of the fact.

Reviewer: Is it until the data is on the cache, or until the application is notified? I would clarify this.
In any case, I would remove the word `cache`, and say something like 'the subscriber receives the data'

That delay by default is set to 0 in order to optimize the internal operations.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                          | Default Value     |
+==========================+===============================+===================+
| duration                 | fastrtps::Duration_t          | c_TimeZero        |
+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to Topic, DataWriter and DataReader entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It can be changed after the creation of the entities.

.. warning::
    For DataWriters and DataReaders to match, they must follow the compatibility rule. See :ref:`latencybudget_compatibilityrule`
    for further details.

.. _latencybudget_compatibilityrule:

Compatibility Rule

> """"""""""""""""""

Reviewer: Missing an example here

Author: This Qos is not implemented and we said that they will not have examples.

DataWriter and DataReader history as well as from the transient and persistent information caches.

By default, the `duration` is infinite, which means that there isn't a maximum duration for the validity of the samples
written by the DataWriter.

The expiration time is computed by adding the `duration` to the source timestamp, which can be calculated automatically
if :func:`write` member function is called or supplied by the application by means of :func:`write_w_timestamp` member
function.
The DataReader is allowed to use the reception timestamp instead of the source timestamp.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                          | Default Value     |
+==========================+===============================+===================+
| duration                 | fastrtps::Duration_t          | c_TimeInfinite    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to Topic and DataWriter entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`

>      It can be changed after the creation of the entities.

Reviewer: Although it is an extension, we also have lifespan on DataReader. In fact, the XML example is configuring lifespan on the DataReader/Subscriber

  `lease_duration`.

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to Topic, DataReader and DataWriter entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entities.

.. warning::
    For DataWriters and DataReaders to match, they must follow the compatibility rule. See :ref:`liveliness_compatibilityrule`
    for further details.

.. _livelinessqospolicykind:

LivelinessQosPolicyKind
"""""""""""""""""""""""

There are three possible values:

* **Automatic**: The service takes the responsibility for renewing the leases at the required rates, as long as the
  local process where the participant is running and the link connecting it to remote participants exists, the
  entities within the remote participant will be considered alive.
  This kind is suitable for applications that only need to detect whether a remote application is still running.
* The two **Manual** modes require that the application on the publishing side asserts the liveliness periodically
  before the lease_duration timer expires. This action can be done by calling `assert_liveliness` member function, or

>   by writing some data.

Reviewer: write values in uppercase and underscores
In addition, the names should be:
AUTOMATIC_LIVELINESS_QOS
MANUAL_BY_PARTICIPANT_LIVELINESS_QOS
MANUAL_BY_TOPIC_LIVELINESS_QOS

> * The two **Manual** modes require that the application on the publishing side asserts the liveliness periodically
>   before the lease_duration timer expires. This action can be done by calling `assert_liveliness` member function, or
>   by writing some data.

Reviewer: Clarifying a little bit more:
```suggestion
* The two **Manual** modes require that the application on the publishing side asserts the liveliness periodically
  before the lease_duration timer expires.
  Publishing any new data value implicitly asserts the DataWriter's liveliness, but it can be done explicitly
  by calling the `assert_liveliness` member function.
```

>   * **Manual by Participant**: If one of the entities in the publishing side asserts its' liveliness, the service
>     deduces that all other entities within the same DomainParticipant are also alive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Manual by Participant**: If one of the entities in the publishing side asserts its liveliness, the service
    deduces that all other entities within the same DomainParticipant are also alive.
```

  * **Manual by Topic**: This mode is more restrictive and requires that at least one instance within the DataWriter
    is asserted to consider that the DataWriter is alive.

.. _liveliness_compatibilityrule:

Compatibility Rule
""""""""""""""""""

To maintain the compatibility between LivelinessQosPolicy in DataReaders and DataWriters, the DataWriter kind must be
higher or equal to the DataReader kind.
And the order between the different kinds is::

>  AUTOMATIC < MANUAL BY PARTICIPANT < MANUAL BY TOPIC

Reviewer: the names should be:
AUTOMATIC_LIVELINESS_QOS
MANUAL_BY_PARTICIPANT_LIVELINESS_QOS
MANUAL_BY_TOPIC_LIVELINESS_QOS

| Automatic             | Automatic             | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Automatic             | Manual By Participant | No              |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Automatic             | Manual By Topic       | No              |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Manual By Participant | Automatic             | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Manual By Participant | Manual By Participant | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Manual By Participant | Manual By Topic       | No              |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Manual By Topic       | Automatic             | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Manual By Topic       | Manual By Participant | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Manual By Topic       | Manual By Topic       | Yes             |

> +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+

Reviewer: write values in uppercase and underscores
In addition, the names should be:
AUTOMATIC_LIVELINESS_QOS
MANUAL_BY_PARTICIPANT_LIVELINESS_QOS
MANUAL_BY_TOPIC_LIVELINESS_QOS

modify the same data instance. It is only applicable if the :ref:`ownershipqospolicy` kind is set to EXCLUSIVE.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                          | Default Value     |
+==========================+===============================+===================+
| value                    | uint32_t                      | 0                 |
+--------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to DataWriter entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It can be changed after the creation of the entities.

Example
"""""""

C++
***
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_OWNERSHIP_STRENGTH_QOS_POLICY
   :end-before: //!

XML
***
This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML by the moment.

.. _partitionqospolicy:

PartitionQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This Qos Policy allows the introduction of a logical partition inside the physical partition introduced by a domain.

> For a DataReader to see the changes made by a DataWriter, not only the Topic must match, but also they have to be on
> the same logical partition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a DataReader to see the changes made by a DataWriter, not only the Topic must match, but also they have to share
at least one logical partition.
```
I think the old wording may induce the user to think the complete value of the partition qos must be the same in both endpoints

+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Topic                 | Instance              | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Topic                 | Topic                 | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Topic                 | Group                 | No              |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Group                 | Instance              | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Group                 | Topic                 | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+
| Group                 | Group                 | Yes             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+

Additionally, the coherent_access and ordered_access of the Subscriber can only be enabled if they are also enabled on
the Publisher.

.. _readerdatalifecycleqospolicy:

ReaderDataLifecycleQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning::
    This QoS Policy will be implemented in future releases.

> This QoS Policy specifies the behavior of the DataReader with respect to the lifecycle of the data instances it manages
> , that is, the instance that have been received and for which the DataReader maintains some internal resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy specifies the behavior of the DataReader with respect to the lifecycle of the data instances it manages
, that is, the instances that have been received and for which the DataReader maintains some internal resources.
```

* **Kind**: Specifies the behavior of the service regarding delivery of the samples.
  See :ref:`reliabilityqospolicykind` for further details.
* **Max blocking time**: Configures the maximum duration that the write operation can be blocked.

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to Topic, DataWriter and DataReader entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entity.

.. warning::
    For DataWriters and DataReaders to match, they must follow the compatibility rule. See :ref:`reliability_compatibilityrule`
    for further details.

.. _reliabilityqospolicykind:

ReliabilityQosPolicyKind
""""""""""""""""""""""""

There are two possible values:

* **Best Effort**: It indicates that it is acceptable not to retransmit the missing samples, so the messages are sent
  without waiting for an arrival confirmation.
  Presumably new values for the samples are generated often enough that it is not necessary to re-send any sample.
  However, the data samples sent by the same DataWriter will be stored in the DataReader history in the same order they
  occur.

>   In other words, even if the DataReader miss some data samples, a newer value will never be change to an older value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In other words, even if the DataReader misses some data samples, an older value will never overwrite a newer value.
```

* **Reliable**: It indicates that the service will attempt to deliver all samples of the DataWriter's history expecting
  an arrival confirmation from the DataReader.
  The data samples sent by the same DataWriter cannot be made available to the DataReader if there are previous samples
  that have not been received yet.
  The service will retransmit the lost data samples in order to reconstruct a correct snapshot of the DataWriter
  history before it is accessible by the DataReader.

  This option may block the write operation, hence the `max_blocking_time` is set that will unblock it once the time

>   expires.

Reviewer: Explain that the write operation fails if the max_blocking_time expires before actually sending the data

application and other QoS Policies.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                        | Default Value         |
+==========================+=============================+=======================+
| max_samples              | int32_t                     | 5000                  |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+
| max_instances            | int32_t                     | 10                    |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+
| max_samples_per_instance | int32_t                     | 400                   |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+
| allocated_samples        | int32_t                     | 100                   |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------+

* **Max samples**: Controls the maximum number of samples that the DataWriter or DataReader can manage across all the
  instances associated with it.

>   In other words, it represent the maximum samples that the middleware can store for a DataReader or DataWriter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In other words, it represents the maximum samples that the middleware can store for a DataReader or DataWriter.
```

* **Max instances**: Controls the maximum number of instances that a DataWriter or DataReader can manage.
* **Max samples per instance**: Controls the maximum number of samples within an instance that the DataWriter or
  DataReader can manage.

> * **Allocated samples**: States the number of samples currently allocated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Allocated samples**: States the number of samples that will be allocated on initialization.
```

.. warning::
    This QoS Policy will be implemented in future releases.

Filter that allows a DataReader to specify that it is interested only in a subset of the values of the data.
This filter states that the DataReader doesn't want to receive more than one value each `minimum_separation`,
regardless of how fast the changes occur.

The `minimum_separation` must be lower than the :ref:`deadlineqospolicy` `period`.
By default, the `minimum_separation` is zero, which means that the DataReader is potentially interested in all the
values.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                         | Default Value     |
+==========================+==============================+===================+
| minimum_separation       | fastrtps::Duration_t         | c_TimeZero        |
+--------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to DataReader entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It can be changed after the creation of the entity.

.. _topicdataqospolicy:

TopicDataQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Allow the application to attach additional information to a created Topic so that when a remote application discovers
> it can access the data and use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allow the application to attach additional information to a created Topic so that when it is discovered by a remote application,
it can access the data and use it.
```

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                         | Default Value     |
+==========================+==============================+===================+
| collection               | std::vector<fastrtps::octet> | Empty vector      |
+--------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+

.. note::
    This QoS Policy concerns to Topic entities.
    :raw-html:`<br />`
    It can be changed even if it is already created.

Example
"""""""

C++
***
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_TOPIC_DATA_QOS_POLICY
   :end-before: //!

XML
***

> This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML by the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML for the moment.
```

.. _transportpriorityqospolicy:

TransportPriorityQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning::
    This QoS Policy will be implemented in future releases.

The purpose of this QoS Policy is to allow the service to take advantage of those transports capable of sending
messages with different priorities. It establishes the priority of the underlying transport used to send the data.

You can choose any value within the 32-bit range for the priority. The higher the value, the higher the priority.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+

> | Data Member Na           | Type                         | Default Value     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Data Member Name         | Type                         | Default Value     |
```

     It can be changed after the creation of the entity.

.. _userdataqospolicy:

UserDataQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Allow the application to attach additional information to the Entity object so that when the entity is discovered
the remote application can access the data and use it.
For example, it can be used to attach the security credentials to authenticate the source from the remote application.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                         | Default Value     |
+==========================+==============================+===================+
| collection               | std::vector<fastrtps::octet> | Empty vector      |
+--------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+

.. note::
    This QoS Policy concerns to all DDS entities.
    :raw-html:`<br />`
    It can be changed even if they are already created.

Example
"""""""

C++
***
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_USER_DATA_QOS_POLICY
   :end-before: //!

XML
***

> This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML by the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML for the moment.
```

.. _writerdatalifecycleqospolicy:

WriterDataLifecycleQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning::
    This QoS Policy will be implemented in future releases.

This QoS Policy specifies the behavior of the DataWriter with respect to the lifecycle of the data instances it manages
, that is, the instance that has been either explicitly registered with the DataWriter using the register operations
or implicitly by directly writing data.

The `autodispose_unregistered_instances` controls whether a DataWriter will automatically dispose an instance each time

> it is unregistered. Even if it is disabled, the application can get the same result if uses the dispose operation
> before unregistering the instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is unregistered.
Even if it is disabled, the application can still get the same result if it uses the dispose operation
before unregistering the instance.
```

limited.
It consists in changing the default behavior by which positive acks are sent from readers to writers.
Instead, only negative acks will be sent when a reader is missing a sample, but writers will keep data for a sufficient
time before considering it as acknowledged.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| Data Member Name                   | Type                         | Default Value     |
+====================================+==============================+===================+
| enabled                            | bool                         | false             |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| duration                           | fastrtps::Duration_t         | c_TimeInfinite    |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+

* **Enabled**: Specifies if the QoS is enabled or not. If it is true means that the positive acks are disabled and the
  DataReader only sends negative acks. Otherwise, both positive and negative acks are sent.

> * **Duration**: State the duration that the DataWriters keep the data before considering it as acknowledged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Duration**: State the duration that the DataWriters keep the data before considering it as acknowledged.
   This value does not apply to DataReaders.
```

| Member Name                        | Type                         | Default Value     |
+====================================+==============================+===================+
| max_unicast_locators               | size_t                       | 4                 |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| max_multicast_locators             | size_t                       | 1                 |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+

* **Max unicast locators**: This member controls the maximum number of unicast locators to keep for each discovered
  remote entity.
  It is recommended to use the highest number of local addresses found on all the systems belonging to the same domain.
* **Max multicast locators**: This member controls the maximum number of multicast locators to keep for each discovered
  remote entity.
  The default value is usually enough, as it doesn't make sense to add more than one multicast locator per entity.

.. _resourcelimitedcontainerconfig:

ResourceLimitedContainerConfig
******************************

> This structure holds the limits of a resource limited collection, as well as the allocation configuration that can be
> fixed size or dynamic size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This structure holds the limits of a resource limited collection, as well as the allocation configuration, which can be
fixed size or dynamic size.
```

List of structure members:

+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Member Name                        | Type                         | Default Value                     |
+====================================+==============================+===================================+
| initial                            | size_t                       | 0                                 |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| maximum                            | size_t                       | std::numeric_limits<size_t>::max()|
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| increment                          | size_t                       | 1 (dynamic size), 0 (fixed size)  |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

* **Initial**: Indicates the number of elements to preallocate in the collection.
* **Maximum**: Specifies the maximum number of elements allowed in the collection.

> * **Increment**: States the number of items to add when the capacity limit is reached. This member has a different
>   default value depending on the allocation configuration chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Increment**: States the number of items to add when the reserved capacity limit is reached. This member has a different
  default value depending on the allocation configuration chosen.
```

.. _sendbuffersallocationattributes:

SendBuffersAllocationAttributes
*******************************

> This structure holds the limits for the allocations' send buffers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This structure holds the limits for the allocations of the send buffers.
```

VariableLengthDataLimits
************************

This structure holds the limits for variable-length data.

List of structure members:

+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| Member Name                        | Type                         | Default Value     |
+====================================+==============================+===================+
| max_properties                     | size_t                       | 0                 |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| max_user_data                      | size_t                       | 0                 |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| max_partitions                     | size_t                       | 0                 |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+

* **Max properties**: Defines the maximum size, in octets, of the properties data in the local or remote participant.
* **Max user data**: Establishes the maximum size, in octets, of the user data in the local or remote participant.

> * **Max partitions**: States the maximum size, in octets, of the partitions data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Max partitions**: States the maximum size, in octets, of the partitions data in the local or remote participant.
```

Example
*******

C++
###
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_PARTICIPANT_RESOURCE_LIMITS_QOS_POLICY
   :end-before: //!

XML
###
.. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
    :language: xml
    :start-after: <!-->CONF-ALLOCATION-QOS-EXAMPLE
    :end-before: <publisher

.. _propertypolicyqos:

PropertyPolicyQos
"""""""""""""""""

This additional QoS Policy stores name/value pairs that can be used to configure certain DDS settings that cannot
be configured directly using an standard QoS Policy.
In Fast DDS, it can be used to configure the security settings (See :ref:`security` for further details of the security
functionality).

Example
*******

C++
###
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_PROPERTY_POLICY_QOS
   :end-before: //!

XML
###
.. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
    :language: xml
    :start-after: <!-->XML_PROPERTY_POLICY
    :end-before: <!--><-->

.. _publishmodeqospolicy:

PublishModeQosPolicy
""""""""""""""""""""

> This QoS Policy configure how the middleware sends the application data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy configures how the DataWriter sends the data.
```

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                           | Default Value         |
+==========================+================================+=======================+
| kind                     | :ref:`publishmodeqospolicykind`| SYNCHRONOUS           |
+--------------------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to DataWriter entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entity.

.. _publishmodeqospolicykind:

PublishModeQosPolicyKind
************************

There are two possible values:

> * **Synchronous**: The data is sent in the context of the user thread, which calls the write operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Synchronous**: The data is sent in the context of the user thread that calls the write operation.
   The write operation returns after sending the data.
```

> * **Asynchronous**: An internal thread takes the responsibility of sending the data asynchronously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Asynchronous**: An internal thread takes the responsibility of sending the data asynchronously.
   The write operation returns before the data is actually sent.
```

"""""""""""""""""""""""

This QoS Policy states the limits for the matched DataWriters' resource limited collections based on the maximum number
of DataWriters that are going to match with the DataReader.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Data Member Name             | Type                                      |
+==============================+===========================================+
| matched_publisher_allocation | :ref:`resourcelimitedcontainerconfig`     |
+------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to DataReader entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entity.

Example
*******

C++
###
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_READER_RESOURCE_LIMITS_QOS
   :end-before: //!

XML
###
.. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
    :language: xml
    :start-after: <!-->XML_READER_RESOURCE_LIMITS_QOS<-->
    :end-before: <!--><-->

.. _rtpsendpointqos:

RTPSEndpointQos
"""""""""""""""

> This QoS Policy configures the aspects of an RTPS endpoint, such as the list of locators, the identifiers and the
> history memory policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy configures the aspects of an RTPS endpoint, such as the list of locators, the identifiers, and the
history memory policy.
```
I like the Oxford comma

  By default, DataReaders and DataWriters don't use any multicast locator, but it can be changed by means of this QoS.
* **Remote locator list**: States the list of remote locators associated to the DDS Entity.
* **User defined ID**: Establishes the unique identifier used for StaticEndpointDiscovery.
* **Entity ID**: The user can specify the identifier for the endpoint.
* **History memory policy**: Indicates the way the memory is managed in terms of dealing with the CacheChanges.

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to DataWriter and DataReader entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entity.

.. _memorymanagementpolicy:

MemoryManagementPolicy
**********************

There are four possible values:

* **Preallocated**: This option sets the size to the maximum of each data type. It produces the largest memory
  footprint but the smallest allocation count.
* **Preallocated with realloc**: This option set the size to the default for each data type and it requires
  reallocation when a bigger message arrives. It produces a lower memory footprint at the expense of increasing the
  allocation count.

> * **Dynamic reserve**: This option allocates dynamically the size at the time of message arrival. It produces the least
>   memory footprint but the highest allocation count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Dynamic reserve**: This option allocates the size dynamically at the time of message arrival. It produces the least
  memory footprint but the highest allocation count.
```

> * **Dynamic reusable**: This option is similar to the previous one, but the allocated memory is reused for future
>   messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Dynamic reusable**: This option is similar to *dynamic reusable*, but the allocated memory is reused for future
  messages.
```

Example
*******

C++
###
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_RTPS_ENDPOINT_QOS
   :end-before: //!

XML
###
.. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
    :language: xml
    :start-after: <!-->XML_RTPS_ENDPOINT_QOS<-->
    :end-before: <!--><-->

.. _rtpsreliablereaderqos:

RTPSReliableReaderQos
"""""""""""""""""""""

This RTPS QoS Policy allows the configuration of several RTPS reliable reader's aspects.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                               |
+==========================+====================================+
| times                    | :ref:`readertimes`                 |
+--------------------------+------------------------------------+
| disable_positive_ACKs    | :ref:`disablepositiveacksqospolicy`|
+--------------------------+------------------------------------+

* **Times**: Defines the duration of the RTPSReader events. See :ref:`readertimes` for further details.

> * **Disable positive ACKs**: Configure the settings to disable the positive acks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Disable positive ACKs**: Configures the settings to disable the positive acks.
```

  See :ref:`disablepositiveacksqospolicy` for further details.

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to DataReader entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entity.

.. _readertimes:

ReaderTimes
***********

This structure defines the times associated with the Reliable Readers' events.

List of structure members:

+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| Member Name                        | Type                         | Default Value     |
+====================================+==============================+===================+
| initialAcknackDelay                | fastrtps::Duration_t         | 70 milliseconds   |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| heartbeatResponseDelay             | fastrtps::Duration_t         | 5 milliseconds    |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+

> * **Initial acknack delay**: Defines duration of the initial acknack delay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Initial acknack delay**: Defines the duration of the initial acknack delay.
```

Example
*******

C++
###
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_RTPS_RELIABLE_READER_QOS
   :end-before: //!

XML
###
.. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
    :language: xml
    :start-after: <!-->XML_RTPS_RELIABLE_READER_QOS<-->
    :end-before: <!--><-->

.. _rtpsreliablewriterqos:

RTPSReliableWriterQos
"""""""""""""""""""""

This RTPS QoS Policy allows the configuration of several RTPS reliable writer's aspects.

List of QoS Policy data members:

+--------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Data Member Name         | Type                               |
+==========================+====================================+
| times                    | :ref:`writertimes`                 |
+--------------------------+------------------------------------+
| disable_positive_acks    | :ref:`disablepositiveacksqospolicy`|
+--------------------------+------------------------------------+

* **Times**: Defines the duration of the RTPSWriter events. See :ref:`writertimes` for further details.

> * **Disable positive ACKs**: Configure the settings to disable the positive acks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Disable positive ACKs**: Configures the settings to disable the positive acks.
```

| Member Name                        | Type                         | Default Value     |
+====================================+==============================+===================+
| initialHeartbeatDelay              | fastrtps::Duration_t         | 12 milliseconds   |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| heartbeatPeriod                    | fastrtps::Duration_t         | 3 seconds         |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| nackResponseDelay                  | fastrtps::Duration_t         | 5 milliseconds    |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+
| nackSupressionDuration             | fastrtps::Duration_t         | 0 seconds         |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+-------------------+

* **Initial heartbeat delay**: Defines duration of the initial heartbeat delay.
* **Heartbeat period**: Specifies the interval between periodic heartbeats.
* **Nack response delay**: Establishes the duration of the delay applied to the response of an ACKNACK message.

> * **Nack supression duration**: The RTPSWriter ignore the nack messages received after sending the data until the
>   duration time elapses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Nack supression duration**: The RTPSWriter ignores the nack messages received after sending the data until the
  duration time elapses.
```

List of structure members:

+------------------------------------+------------------------------+
| Member Name                        | Type                         |
+====================================+==============================+
| maxMessageSize                     | uint32_t                     |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+
| maxInitialPeersRange               | uint32_t                     |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------+

* **Max message size**: This member sets the maximum size in bytes of the transport's message buffer.
* **Max initial peers range**: This member states the maximum number of guessed initial peers to try to connect.

Example
*******

C++
###
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_TRANSPORT_CONFIG_QOS
   :end-before: //!

XML
###
.. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
    :language: xml
    :start-after: <!-->CONF-COMMON-TRANSPORT-SETTING<-->
    :end-before: <!--><-->

.. _typeconsistencyqos:

TypeConsistencyQos
""""""""""""""""""

> This QoS Policy allow the configuration of the DataReader XTypes extension QoS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy allows the configuration of the XTypes extension QoS on the DataReader.
```

+--------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Data Member Name               | Type                                      |
+================================+===========================================+
| type_consistency               | :ref:`typeconsistencyenforcementqospolicy`|
+--------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| representation                 | :ref:`datarepresentationqospolicy`        |
+--------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

* **Type consistency**: It states the rules for the data types compatibility.
  See :ref:`typeconsistencyenforcementqospolicy` for further details.
* **Representation**: It specifies the data representations valid for the entities.
  See :ref:`datarepresentationqospolicy` for further details.

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to DataReader entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entity.

Example
*******

C++
###
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_TYPE_CONSISTENCY_QOS
   :end-before: //!

XML
###

> This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML by the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML for the moment.
```

+===============================+===========================================+
| matched_subscriber_allocation | :ref:`resourcelimitedcontainerconfig`     |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to DataWriter entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entity.

Example
*******

C++
###
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_WRITER_RESOURCE_LIMITS_QOS
   :end-before: //!

XML
###
.. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
    :language: xml
    :start-after: <!-->XML_WRITER_RESOURCE_LIMITS_QOS<-->
    :end-before: <!--><-->

.. _xtypes_extensions:

XTypes Extensions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section explain those QoS Policy extensions defined in the `XTypes Specification <https://www.omg.org/spec/DDS-XTypes/>`_:

.. _datarepresentationqospolicy:

DataRepresentationQosPolicy
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This XTypes QoS Policy states which data representations will be used by the DataWriters and DataReaders.

> The DataWriters offered a single data representation that will be used to communicate with the DataReaders matched.
> The DataReaders can request one or more data representations and in order to have communication with the DataWriter,
> the offered data representation need to be contained within the DataReader sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DataWriters offer a single data representation that will be used to communicate with the matched DataReaders.
The DataReaders can request one or more data representations and in order to have communication with the DataWriter,
the offered data representation needs to be contained within the DataReader request.
```

+================================+==========================================+=======================+
| m_value                        | std::vector<:ref:`datarepresentationid`> | Empty vector          |
+--------------------------------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------+

.. note::
     This QoS Policy concerns to Topic, DataReader and DataWriter entities.
     :raw-html:`<br />`
     It cannot be changed after the creation of the entity.

.. _datarepresentationid:

DataRepresentationId
********************

There are three possible values:

* **XCDR data representation**: This option corresponds to the first version of the `Extended CDR Representation`
  encoding.
* **XML data representation**: This option corresponds to the `XML Data Representation`.
* **XCDR2 data representation**: This option corresponds to the second version of the `Extended CDR Representation`
  encoding.

Example
*******

C++
###
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
   :language: c++
   :dedent: 8
   :start-after: //DDS_CHANGE_DATA_REPRESENTATION_QOS
   :end-before: //!

XML
###

> This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML by the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This QoS Policy cannot be configured using XML for the moment.
```

.. _typeconsistencyenforcementqospolicy:

TypeConsistencyEnforcementQosPolicy
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> This XTypes QoS Policy extension defines the rules for determining whether the data type used to send the data by the
> DataWriter is consistent with the one used in the DataReader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This XTypes QoS Policy extension defines the rules for determining whether the data type used in the
DataWriter is consistent with the one used in the DataReader.
```

| m_kind                         | :ref:`typeconsistencykind`            | ALLOW_TYPE_COERCION   |
+--------------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| m_ignore_sequence_bounds       | bool                                  | true                  |
+--------------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| m_ignore_string_bounds         | bool                                  | true                  |
+--------------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| m_ignore_member_names          | bool                                  | false                 |
+--------------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| m_prevent_type_widening        | bool                                  | false                 |
+--------------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| m_force_type_validation        | bool                                  | false                 |
+--------------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------+

> * **Kind**: It determines whether the DataWriter type must be equal to the DataReader type or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Kind**: It determines whether the type in the DataWriter must be equal to the type in the DataReader or not.
```

  See :ref:`typeconsistencykind` for further details.
* **Ignore sequence bounds**: This data member controls whether the sequence bounds are taken into account for type
  assignability or not. If its value is true, the sequences maximum lengths are not considered, which means that a
  sequence T2 with length L2 would be assignable to a sequence T1 with length L1, even if L2 is greater than L1.
  But if it is false, L1 must be higher or equal to L2 to consider the sequences as assignable.
* **Ignore string bounds**: It controls whether the string bounds are considered for type assignation or not.
  If its value is true, the strings maximum lengths are not considered, which means that a string S2 with length L2
  would be assignable to a string S1 with length L1, even if L2 is greater than L1.
  But if it is false, L1 must be higher or equal to L2 to consider the strings as assignable.
* **Ignore member names**: This boolean controls whether the member names are taken into consideration for
  type assignability or not.

>   If it is true, apart from the member ID, the member names are considered as part of assignability, which means that
>   the members with the same ID have also the same name. But if the value is false, the member names are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If it is true, apart from the member ID, the member names are considered as part of assignability, which means that
  the members with the same ID must also have the same name. But if the value is false, the member names are ignored.
```

* **Prevent type widening**: This data member controls whether the type widening is allowed or not.

>   If it is false, the type widening is permitted, but if true, a wider type cannot be assignable to a narrow type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If it is false, the type widening is permitted, but if true, a wider type cannot be assignable to a narrower type.
```

> * **Force type validation**: It controls if the service need the type information to complete the matching between a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Force type validation**: It controls if the service needs the type information to complete the matching between a
```
